README.md, before:

# Diletta Challenge

![Flutter Version](https://badgen.net/badge/Flutter/3.24.3)

## Technologies Used

This mobile application utilizes the following technologies:

- **Flutter (3.24.3)**
- **Clean Architecture**
- **Dependency Injection**
- **Route Management**
- **State Management**
- **Data Persistence**
- **API Communication**

## Architecture Overview (Clean Architecture)

The project follows the Clean Architecture principles, with the following directory structure:

- `data`: Handles external communications and data sources (e.g., API).
- `di`: Manages dependency injection.
- `domain`: Contains business logic and entities.
- `env`: Environment configuration and setup.
- `infra`: Provides external library implementations.
- `presentation`: Contains UI logic and state management.
  - `controllers`: Manages screen state and actions.
- `ui`: The view layer of the app.

### Principles Followed

- **SOLID**: Ensures clean and maintainable code.
- **KISS**: Keep It Simple, Stupid – for simplicity.
- **DRY**: Don't Repeat Yourself – for code reusability.

## Installation

Follow these steps to set up the project:

1. Install [Flutter](https://flutter.dev/docs/get-started/install) if you haven't already.
2. Ensure you have **Flutter 3.24.3** installed.
3. Clone this repository and navigate to the project root.
4. Run `flutter pub get` to install dependencies.
5. Run `dart run build_runner build` to run the code generator.
6. Copy the `.env.example` file to `lib/env` and rename it to `.env`. Fill in the required values.

   **(**Note**: I used a fake API for this project: `https://api.escuelajs.co/api/v1`)**.

7. Use the following command to run the app with the correct environment configuration:
   ```bash
   flutter run --dart-define-from-file=lib/env/.env
   ```

## Running Tests

You can run unit and integration tests using the following commands:

- **Unit and Widget Tests**:

  ```bash
  flutter test test/
  ```

- **Integration Tests**:
  ```bash
  flutter test --dart-define-from-file=lib/env/.env integration_test/
  ```

## Dependencies

- `cached_network_image: ^3.4.1`
  - Efficiently handled the loading and caching of images from the API, improving performance by reducing network requests and providing a smoother user experience.
- `dio: ^5.7.0`
  - Facilitated making HTTP requests to the API and handling responses. Its features, such as interceptors and error handling, were instrumental in ensuring reliable data fetching and error management.
- `get: ^4.6.6`
  - Chosen as the primary state management solution due to its simplicity, performance, and my familiarity with the library. Get offered a streamlined approach to managing application state, navigation, and dependency injection, leading to a more maintainable and scalable codebase.
- `json_annotation: ^4.9.0`
  - Generated boilerplate code for serializing and deserializing JSON objects, simplifying integration with the API and local data storage.
- `shared_preferences: ^2.3.2`
  - Provided an efficient way to store user settings and other small data locally, without the need for a full database.

Commit message:

test: add integration tests chore: update README

README.md, after:

# Diletta Challenge

![Flutter Version](https://badgen.net/badge/Flutter/3.24.3)

## Technologies Used

This mobile application utilizes the following technologies:

- **Flutter (3.24.3)**
- **Clean Architecture**
- **Dependency Injection**
- **Route Management**
- **State Management**
- **Data Persistence**
- **API Communication**

## Architecture Overview (Clean Architecture)

The project follows the Clean Architecture principles, with the following directory structure:

- `data`: Handles external communications and data sources (e.g., API).
- `di`: Manages dependency injection.
- `domain`: Contains business logic and entities.
- `env`: Environment configuration and setup.
- `infra`: Provides external library implementations.
- `presentation`: Contains UI logic and state management.
  - `controllers`: Manages screen state and actions.
- `ui`: The view layer of the app.

### Principles Followed

- **SOLID**: Ensures clean and maintainable code.
- **KISS**: Keep It Simple, Stupid – for simplicity.
- **DRY**: Don't Repeat Yourself – for code reusability.

## Installation

Follow these steps to set up the project:

1. Install [Flutter](https://flutter.dev/docs/get-started/install) if you haven't already.
2. Ensure you have **Flutter 3.24.3** installed.
3. Clone this repository and navigate to the project root.
4. Run `flutter pub get` to install dependencies.
5. Run `dart run build_runner build` to run the code generator.
6. Copy the `.env.example` file to `lib/env` and rename it to `.env`. Fill in the required values.

   **(**Note**: I used a fake API for this project: `https://api.escuelajs.co/api/v1`)**.

7. Use the following command to run the app with the correct environment configuration:
   ```bash
   flutter run --dart-define-from-file=lib/env/.env
   ```

## Running Tests

You can run unit and integration tests using the following commands:

- **Unit and Widget Tests**:

  ```bash
  flutter test test/
  ```

- **Integration Tests**:
  ```bash
  flutter test --dart-define-from-file=lib/env/.env integration_test/
  ```
  > _**Note**: To meet the project deadline, I prioritized testing the primary user flows in integration tests. I intend to revisit this project to add more comprehensive unit and integration tests, covering edge cases and alternative scenarios._

## Dependencies

- `cached_network_image: ^3.4.1`
  - Efficiently handled the loading and caching of images from the API, improving performance by reducing network requests and providing a smoother user experience.
- `dio: ^5.7.0`
  - Facilitated making HTTP requests to the API and handling responses. Its features, such as interceptors and error handling, were instrumental in ensuring reliable data fetching and error management.
- `get: ^4.6.6`
  - Chosen as the primary state management solution due to its simplicity, performance, and my familiarity with the library. Get offered a streamlined approach to managing application state, navigation, and dependency injection, leading to a more maintainable and scalable codebase.
- `json_annotation: ^4.9.0`
  - Generated boilerplate code for serializing and deserializing JSON objects, simplifying integration with the API and local data storage.
- `shared_preferences: ^2.3.2`
  - Provided an efficient way to store user settings and other small data locally, without the need for a full database.
